Filters are linear when the H function if H(F1 +F2) = H(F1) + H(F2) and H(aF)= aH(f)

Convolution is a linear property when both functions are linear.

Correlation applies the filter normally, while convolution filps it both on the x and y axis.
For a linear filter, that filp (correlation) will result in the same kernal (window) and thus the same output as correlation



For your H(u,v) filter matrix (W x W), if it is used (convolved) with an Image (N x N), the total number of operations is N x N x W x W.

The H matix should be odd length so that the new value is centered.

To make it have less operations, you can linearly separte the W x W matrix. The first row (1 x W) and the first column ( W x 1), if convolved together, make the matrix W x W if it is linearly seperateable. Convolving the two seperate rows with the image (N x N), it will me 2W x N x N (less operations)

Convolving an image with an impulse (Matrix with center value of 1) you get the original image.

When filtering there are three ways to handle boundary issues. 
1. Assume all missing edges are black: Clip Filter 
2. Assume the image wraps around (Left side is filled with right side values): Wrap Around
3. Assume the edge is the same as the corner values: Copy edge
4. Assume the values at the edge is refelected to fill in the missing edges: Reflect Across Edge.

Best are Copy Edge, and Reflect Accross Edge (No obvious edge, and offers best statitistical estimate).

If matrix has only a 1 on the right side, the image is shifted left one pixel (correlation)

You can also sharpen an image by combining 2 filtering windows (Kernals)

You can use a Median filter if the noise looks like it is more random than Gausian noise. Gausians noise total average accross a whole image is said to be 0, which is why averaging Filters are used, But a different method should be used for Salt and Pepper noise. (A median Filter)

A median is not a linear opperation. Therefore it is not a linear filter.
Median Filter is also called Edge Perserving


